# MICROCONTROLLERS MADE EASY

## Output Compare
Output Compare can time an external event by sending a value stored inside the output compare register.

!Input Capture and Output Capture Timer Functions

| INCOMING EVENT | value | TIMER | CLOCK |
|----------------|-------|-------|-------|
|                |       |       |       |
| OUTGOING EVENT |       | TIMER | CLOCK |
|                | value | OCregister |       |

----

## 2.2 DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSORS (DSP)
Microcontrollers react to and control events, whereas DSPs execute repetitive math-intensive algorithms. Today, many embedded applications require both types of processors, and semiconductor manufacturers have responded by introducing microcontrollers with on-chip DSP capability and DSPs with on-chip microcontrollers.

The most basic thing a DSP will do is a MACC (Multiply and ACCumulate). The number of data bits a DSP can Multiply and ACCumulate will determine the dynamic range (and therefore the application).

----

## 2.3 ANALOG AND DIGITAL SIGNALS
We live in an analog world where the information we see, hear, process, and exchange with each other, and with our mechanical and electronic systems, is always an analog quantity: pressure, temperature, voltage, and current are always analog entities. They can be digitized for more efficient storage and transmission, but the interface (input and output) is almost always analog.

Thus, the essence of analog electronics lies in sensing continuously varying information, converting it to digital, and reshaping the digital data to an analog signal at the other end. Mixed analog-digital devices are being used increasingly to integrate the complex functions of high-speed telecommunications or the real-time data processing demanded by industrial control systems and automotive systems.