# MICROCONTROLLERS MADE EASY

> **Disclaimer:**
> “The present note which is for guidance only aims at providing customers with information regarding their products in order for them to save time. As a result, STMicroelectronics shall not be held liable for any direct, indirect or consequential damages with respect to any claims arising from the content of such a note and/or the use made by customers of the information contained herein in connexion with their products.”

Information furnished is believed to be accurate and reliable. However, STMicroelectronics assumes no responsibility for the consequences of use of such information nor for any infringement of patents or other rights of third parties which may result from its use. No license is granted by implication or otherwise under any patent or patent rights of STMicroelectronics. Specifications mentioned in this publication are subject to change without notice. This publication supersedes and replaces all information previously supplied. STMicroelectronics products are not authorized for use as critical components in life support devices or systems without the express written approval of STMicroelectronics.

The ST logo is a registered trademark of STMicroelectronics.
2000 STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved.

Purchase of I2C Components by STMicroelectronics conveys a license under the Philips I2C Patent. Rights to use these components in an I2C system is granted provided that the system conforms to the I2C Standard Specification as defined by Philips.

## STMicroelectronics Group of Companies
- Australia
- Brazil
- China
- Finland
- France
- Germany
- Hong Kong
- India
- Italy
- Japan
- Malaysia
- Malta
- Morocco
- Singapore
- Spain
- Sweden
- Switzerland
- United Kingdom
- U.S.A.

STMicroelectronics Website